okay guys welcome back to our fourth
episode of back to base the podcast we
have got our third and that is the one
and only dr. professor of the genius
what do we call him is that any of those
ring your bells that's Andrew Locke the
Reverend as well don't forget the got
the Reverend Andrew Luck who if you've
been following Australian strength coach
which is me you will know and actually
he features a lot on the base body bows
pages yeah we love injury long we've
been working we've been working with
Andrew for the last few years and before
we get him to introduce himself I'm
going to tell you guys how I met him so
a few years a few years ago at our old
gym that was based Gym in North Sydney I
got a email from Angie Locke saying is
it okay if I come down to base gym and
treat my patients from Sydney because
Andrews from Melbourne and I thought
okay you know I'm always welcoming
guests to our gym but I didn't know who
he was and we had a physiotherapist at
our gym and I said to him and this was
poorly anxieties and I said hey Paulie
have you heard of Andrew Luck and he's
like that's the man like get him in what
did he what do you say what why why do
you ask and it's like okay well he's
emailed me and he's asked me if he could
treat his patients from our gym he's
like hundred percent you need to get
this guy in he's the man it's like wow
okay so I asked a few more people and
and the general consensus that I got was
I went to this physio I went to that
chiropractor I had this injury and then
I went to Andrew Locker now I'm fixed
and it's like wow this guy's got quite
the reputation anyway so I was really I
was really excited to meet this guy and
finally he came down I showed him my gym
I was training I was there lifting that
day and I thought you know what like you
know you know of course I trust Andrew
he's a professional I know he knows what
he's doing so he can help make himself
at home and I pointed him to our
treatment room which has our treatment
bed it's got our massage table and I
said Andrew you know here's all the
weights over here but there's there's a
room for you that's all yours today and
he looked at it he said right well I
won't be using that
I didn't know what he meant you know I
thought he's just cracking some kind of
joke okay anyhow so I go it's like all
good Andrew what's you know my house is
your house and whatever and I started
training deadlifts and what do you know
Andrews got his patients all day long
back to back from 9:00 to 5:00 and he's
using the weights floor he's got his
patients and he's lifting weights with
them like mainly dead lifting he barely
even went into the office or anything
yeah and at the end of the sessions I
you know they came and they did the
Instagram thing they come and they say
you know do you mind if we get a
photograph with you and Andrew it's like
okay sure so they took the photograph
with them on what them in the middle
Andrew on one side me on the other side
doing the Flex and they'd post us on
Instagram and they'd say things like got
to train at base gym and I got to have
my first treatment with Andrew lock I've
been in pain for however many months one
session with Andrew and I walked away
there lifting pain free so Wow okay
that's a very different approach to
physiotherapy one that I didn't really
think of I just thought physiotherapy
was like press here massage there put a
few pins in an electrode or whatever it
is and that's physiotherapy treatment
but not with Andrew and I loved that and
since then we've been working together
we've been running seminars all around
Australia and it's probably my best
collaboration that I've apart from base
body babes and Australian strength coach
of course you have to put us it's it's
without a doubt the best professional
collaboration that I've had and now it's
it's such an honor to have you on our
our podcast and I know you know that's
an introduction I know a lot of the
people that are following us know who
you are but for those who don't can you
please tell us a little bit about
yourself who are you what do you do
really in life expecting to be a
professional baseball player as I played
for Australia as a junior and down I was
actually had left school he burns down
when was a semi-professional expecting
the off to play in American League in
the next season and I saw a [__]
nothing fitness magazine with annulled
on the cover and that was the end of my
baseball career
I decided I was going to become the next
freaking Conan the Barbarian man 12 2530
years I just owned by the Barbarian
movie at that point I was almost gonna
become a professional wrestler as well
so there was a few things air guns
gathered to go to the States and I
decided to get a career in the in the
meantime just as a backup and that was
what physio was but as I was going
through I realized that no man who was
teaching us knew anything about what I
was doing which was lifting whites I was
bench pressing everything and squatting
and loving him and so I became the real
interesting Kabbalists I was already on
the divergence to the rest of the
profession which was traditionally just
running around after 40 players and
tennis players and rugby players and
things like that I was probably at the
right point at the right time where our
professions now you look at the osteo as
a car as a physio as if sighs
physiologist Myers
everyone's weight training so I was
lucky enough to be there at this moment
in time when I think a lot of
professions start to change and there's
a lot more change at least to come yeah
and I can remember that first time I can
do Jim I mean I came there as your
format that is right there's a lot of
things that we don't have in our gym we
consider that we've got a strength gym
but I don't really say that any other
methods really wrong it's just kind of
what we prefer which is probably why
really you and I kind of gelled with
each other we're both kind of preaching
the same thing something that I like
what you say is strength cannot what is
a weakness will not be tolerated and
that very aligned with me from from the
very first time I met you so it leads me
to my first question that I've got to
ask you is where is it that you succeed
and other professionals fail well the
big reason is the same reason that
you're a success we're both following
our passions without negotiation on
anything else we're not driven by money
as much as
the desire to do what we do to the best
of our ability and that's what you do
and that's why you're a success when it
really comes down to it you're gonna do
what you got to do because you can't
live any other way I'm exactly the same
way I have an absolute burning desire to
be the best on the planet of what I do
and what I do is basically I understand
diagnosed rehabilitate injured people
predominant money it's always weight
trainers but then Adolphe course spills
over to the rest the human race a lot of
people say to me you make it seem so
easy and so simple and as Einstein said
if you know what you're talking about
you can explain it to a six-year-old and
that's where my success comes from is
it's all comes together the more you
have a passion for it so that it's still
there I'm getting better every day just
like yourself you're lifting better
every day I'm better than I was last
week I've discovered things in the last
month I didn't know otherwise in the
framework of things I have known
somebody conflicted greatly so that's
why we are the success that we are
passionate about weight training I'm
passionate about fixing things it's
something that we definitely know every
time we see you're doing something new
and we're gonna get to that later on
let's paint a perfect route audience
that don't have the video Andrew is a
very unique looking guy he's jacked his
shoulders fill the screen from end to
end he's got a mohawk and he's just
jacked if you take a look at him you
wouldn't really expect him to be the
smart guy that he is and as successful
as a physiotherapist that he is but when
you get to know him it all makes sense
it does okay so go Andrew we are true to
ourselves and that's what we do is why
you girls do what you do which is such a
passion that's obsession dust that's why
we are who we are we haven't ago shared
it with anyone now you are a unique
character and loved by so many so let's
get straight to the fun stuff we've been
in the industry quite a while now
especially Sebastian he's been around
for a long time
have heard and I'm sure you have and
most of the industry professionals that
listen to us have heard the myths and
the do's and the don'ts in the fitness
industry we want you mister science to
help us bust those myths we're gonna
call it debunking movement mess with
every lock I'm gonna stop go knees over
toes knees over toes in the squat yes no
video lifting competition there's a
simple principle I think which we should
encompass it doesn't matter whether it's
knees or necks or anything and this
helps us to smell it is a joint will
never go where it shouldn't go anyway if
your knee can naturally move over your
toe well guess what evolution gave that
to you for very specific reason and if
you happen to have a freakin long femur
and a short toe center of mass of your
base of support and that needs gonna
move your toe and your because you did
okay hopefully then you've got a huge
structures and associates with them so
yes these can go over toes yeah that
brings us to our next point the VMO VMO
straightening knee rehab let's hear your
thoughts on this one absolute complete
total [__] there's no it doesn't
exist now there's the thing about is we
look back at the studies they describe
why they call it a vm oh there's a
muscle on site inside of your knee
called the vm vastus medialis it's not a
VM oh the big thing there is your vastus
medialis the Oh was supposed to be some
small fibers in an oblique fashion okay
we're using surface EMG s they couldn't
see under the skin they're placing
surface EMG
on a muscle is called the VM and they're
calling it an oblique fiber
it was so poorly done now there was a
lot of wonderful research done many
years ago now about ten years ago you
had up and as found out that the problem
really was a lot of the physios who were
was a lady called Jenny McConnell I
think was the original person about 30
years ago who made this proposition but
a weakness of the muscle on the inside
of your knee allowed your kneecap to
fall outwards what was dead wrong
because what we're doing is are doing
open chain studies not closed chain
studies but a foot on the ground will
see as internal femoral rotation the
theme is fully inwards the kneecap is
not moving outwards it's a position
where it's staying but the theme is
rotating inwards that's got nothing to
do with the muscle and so do you need
but to do with your ass so rehab for and
using a VMO is a total complete waste of
time and a lot of money I went with the
best people who have VMO specialist back
my first graduated 12 months later
they're still doing [__] step downs
on the same patients who aren't getting
any better now I say once and a week
later they're better because they
started to use your ass to control their
femur so let's take a stake in that one
like a vampire
very nicely okay round back dead lifting
good or bad it all depends who you are
now I actually had a patient came in
yesterday funny enough came from the
same placing down one stair sloths came
from she had a humongously
be the resi kyphosis so that's that's
kinda that's that's the famous deadlift
that everyone refers to for those who
don't know he sadly passed away but he's
a current world-record holder in the 125
kilo class four hundred and twenty four
hundred twenty six kilograms no belt
very rounded back and a lot of people
will refer to this guy when they're
talking about round back they're lifting
continue injured yeah relationship here
and she could control her thoracic
kyphosis when she bent over to pick up a
bar she look like JK but she has better
hundred kilos smaller and it is exactly
the way she should live now what do we
talk about round back lifting means
there's nothing wrong with Benny over
and touching your toes how are you know
do your shoelaces up unless you go good
wife with the Earth's yeah touching your
toes and bending your back you can't do
it so what's wrong with bending your
back nothing as long as when you load
your spine that it doesn't bend anymore
there's the game so that's when we use
the word flexion movement and flexion
moments so when you put a load on your
spine and as flexed and nothing wrong
about that but when you start to lift it
up you start to move it
don't let it flex any further that's
called a magnet arms like a crane
lifting now if you go deep-sea fishing
and you happen to catch a big Marlin out
there you'll see the rod will start to
bend the more it loads that's not why we
lift at the fish around back up movement
under load so that's bad so we must say
flexion moments are fine flesh and
movements under load are not a good idea
for the lumbar spine so it has two parts
all good great explanation now we're
gonna go in the opposite end of the
spectrum and talk about bending in the
other direction arch back benching in
our bench press is it good bad and why
well essentially case by case but in the
true main in the majority is the best
thing you can do to look after your back
now just remember a structure is more
stable if it has an arch than if it has
just a simple straight line so if you
look anywhere through the old world you
go you know hiking and touring through
some parts of Europe you'll always know
we Greeks have been because there's lots
of streetlights and lots and lots of
columns that have to hold up that weight
well if you head over to roam and wander
it to the Vatican you'll see that
there's a huge dome it's a V arch and
there's no columns holding that up in
the middle you can span a greater area
and take more load with an arch so an
arch is in fact a more stable structure
than a straight line now we're bench
pressing we're going to be locking that
in with basically everything we have
interrupt Donald presser out Tony oh
that's on our glutes on worse are using
that spectacularly well to be more
stable now you cannot build a disk in
extension and most back injuries are
extinct our flexion injuries so moving
forward under load crowding the disc
injury with a few reasons for that but
many studies done professor mcgill did a
lot of them is a guy called atoms
they must have busted thousands of discs
over the years but they never created a
bulge going into extension only into
flexion now in our space press you're an
extension so it's not a bad thing and
you're not bending too far back that's
fine your body probably is still got a
bit to go and we need if you're gonna be
using hip extension anyway under there
so you can eat yourself in a very
sensible way so yes arching your back
one of the best things you can learn to
do really say you don't put a kid into a
Formula One car and expect them not to
crash so with all that technical work
let's put the old plates on and just the
right to put the weight on the bar as
you have said on that night talking
about kids the last one we've got for
you lifting weights for children yes or
no is it safe yeah sure is very safe
guess what
good technique is universal teach kids
great movement patterns and they'll
become excellent adults and there will
be adults who move very well and they'll
be less likely to get injured so
definitely teach your kid to move under
our load with excellent technique what a
wonderful skill to give a kid really
Nadia waits for children stunting growth
is that a myth it's probably up they
were saying Pilates fixes backs we just
had our daughter dead lifting and I've
had a dead lifting actually she's ten
years old and she dead lifted today not
saying I'm not so heavy that was gonna
break down technique we started her with
a technique by with fifteen kilograms
and I put up a video on social media and
of course I would never want to hurt my
own daughter and I'm very aware like
I've been working with you for years and
I know these things I just know that you
explain them a lot better but I knew
that it was completely safe working with
her and she has been doing it fees but
you still get the odd people on social
media which is unfortunately the way of
the future a lot of people say don't
listen to social media and obviously we
don't take everything on social media as
gospel but there's always gonna be the
odd person out there that says you're
doing the wrong thing you're gonna stunt
their growth and all of these things so
we have our daughter who is under very
good guidance a lot of people don't have
that luxury so yeah our advice would be
do it with good guidance so so that's
some a lot of great things that we've
learned from working like various myths
baths and one thing that was that was
great me it's my sink so one thing is
this kind of moving forward a little bit
a little bit of myth-busting as well but
it's one really important lesson it's
been I will definitely say it's been a
game-changer not just for myself as an
athlete or as a coach but as an online
coach and you girls as well retired team
all of your members the way that we warm
up our procedures have changed
drastically since meeting Andrew so I
will confess I used to consider
stretching as part of the warm-up
routine or a cool-down routine and
flexibility as an important part of your
overall health since working with Andrew
we've very
much ditch the stretching in favor of
activating mobilizing warming up and
then training it's a very different
procedure so stretching is something
that I've learned a lot about through
Andrew and instead of me trying to teach
the audience I'm gonna ask you Andrew
what is your take on stretching muscles
is there ever a benefit do do it what's
your take
it works with populations are people who
have spasticity neurological problems
but for normal populations
it is certainly detrimental should you
be considering you're going to go out
and lift because only by increasing your
stability will you increase your ability
so tightness will protect you looseness
will endanger you I can remember
actually seriously in my first year out
and where I was working was the head of
the AFL physio Association and there was
some interesting data coming through the
teams that had gone through more
stretching programs at that point was
clearly demonstrating more injuries than
any other clubs so it was being
demonstrated with explosive sports the
more you stretched with these athletes
the more they were getting the injured
so try us it's very very much a case of
you would have to give me a reason why
you need to stretch so a lot of people
come to me who consistently stretched
because they feel tight I say well can
you tell me why you feel tight and none
of them can I said well there's your
answer
you haven't found out why you're tight
all you're doing is fighting your
strength you haven't found your weakness
so ever tiredness is is the opportunity
to find a weakness that is making your
body type your tightest is protecting
you so it's funny I get people with
stiffness what are they doing they're
stretching them all the time which is
basely turn the neck yes what you've got
something offending you pulling on you
perhaps you need to tighten up more
because something is really pissing you
off
I'll take you all to go the other
direction with yours Tiffany move
towards the tightness I guess what it
turns it off there we are so the key is
why you type wait don't strange
so you leave me dangling it's a great
answer it's something that we always say
is it's to find what's under performing
so the type muscle isn't what's under
performing that's it that's the muscle
that's doing its job and then people go
and switch it off by stretching it
making them more vulnerable for injury
now you have offended your strength
weaken your strength and done nothing to
address your weaknesses get ready to get
worse right so leading on to the next
part of our warmup procedure that we've
learned from you guys not from you guys
from you in particular with a lot of
research backing everything that you're
talking about and that's activation
exercises for our major joints every
time we do a lower body session we're
loading our spine we're loading our hips
and we'll do some activations to protect
our spine and protect our hips so the
main things are to protect the spine
work on the core to protect the hips
work on the glutes protect the shoulders
we've got a whole bunch of mobility
exercises as well so this is part of the
procedure can you please explain how
does this help us for our warm-up to
activate opposing muscle groups before
we train them if the concept really is
activation is to wake up the primary
muscle groups that you're going to have
involved for example with the approach I
take to the lower body work especially
we have demonstrated this with top-level
dead lifters hip rotational hip talk is
a hallmark over everything else the best
lifters have the strongest hip rotation
hip talk that comes from your glutes
performing extension weight lifters will
compensate because if they don't have
that by overusing their lumbar spines
now there's something to them that's an
evolutionary thing why we probably use
our spines in that method because we're
actually moving towards athletic
endeavors we have to actually switch
things around and really use our primary
strength muscle group to him talk all
right so
if I'm gonna get you too good to have
good hip extension but you've got a very
active lumbar spine
I have to sneak up on your extension by
making you do some abduction and
external rotation which is a glyphs job
now at that point the lower backs not
involved in abduction external rotation
big includes are then I'm gonna
stabilize your core with some planks
tilework
so now you're stiffening it core but it
also turns your gluts on then I'm going
to make you do it a little bit more and
then I'm going to put you into hip
extension movements at that point I've
stiffened before I know what your glutes
exciters I'm going to do hip extension
worth I've got a set core and I've got a
muscle that's kind of extend beautifully
if I've just been straight into training
and that isn't going to extend as well
as it should
they don't give a [__] pattern and I'm
gonna set up an impingement pattern
perhaps in lower back or maybe that disk
so the whole concept of activation is to
set you up for the most perfect
performance loading that's why we warm
up but the activation precedes the
warmer which sets the muscle into the
pattern and then we integrate into the
function of loading so that's why we
take so long to do what we do in fact
then comes back to a little bit of
stretching moment there my concept on
some people while I stretch and you'll
have observe this as well as they're not
really stretching they're sitting down
they're moving but getting their head
space right before they train
it isn't really they're really trying to
stretch anything big in the head space
they're sitting down for 20 minutes half
an hour and they gotta get the air space
right so what are they gonna do that's
what they call stretching realistically
they're just feeling themselves moved
it's more going as well it's a mental
game for you start lifting and I think
we've had a lot of success and a lot of
great feedback since introducing the
core and glute activation routines prior
to all of our workouts it's actually
included in all of our programming now
cross base body waves everyone knows our
audience I've got a lot of elite level
athletes yeah and thought does it and
he's the strongest man on the planet we
also use these activations actually I
see you in the morning we've got Felicia
training my daughter a little bit
during our activation so amazing we use
that example from the absolute beginner
to the most elite in the world we're
using these exercises they're not too
cool or they're not too difficult for
any genre any level of experience and
and we've had a lot of great success so
so I would have to say for those who
want to know the different types of
activations that we're talking about a
lot of them would be posted up on your
Instagram page is that right Andrew
tagging tagging Andrew with that as well
glute activation routine it's been a
game-changer
absolutely for all of us I'm gonna
change the topic a little bit a little
bit personal actually it's something
that I experience all the time and I
just wanted to chat with you about on
the platform like it's the elevator for
females for women it's definitely the
elephant in the room boys don't do it
but no weighing on the platform yeah
is it normal is there a way that we can
fix it let's put a bit of context to
this you don't just get up on no I don't
think about heavy lies it's wedges it's
when she's lifting hit like usually
heavy yeah lifting over squatting
actually heavy rain it goes really heavy
and you're going to maximal loads and
it's not just you we're using you as an
example we don't want to throw any other
women under the buzzer I'm quite happy
to talk about it it's happening over and
over you go to any major Palestine
competition or weightlifting competition
that's what you're gonna see women
lifting really really heavy loads and
then followed by in most instances
urinating on the platform yeah during
the biggest the sticking point the most
strenuous point of the lift is it normal
well you've actually defined it
perfectly actually you'll probably
notice that happens more as sumo by the
way
so what you picked out there was the
ideally it happens under the greatest
load so it's not normal that's when
you're approaching abnormal levels of
strength okay solution to the problem is
one there's a couple realistically but
the most effective what we're talking
about here is how to really stop this
happening and minimize it you find the
weak point in your lift when you are
having that problem identify where it is
in the lift at that point in your
training you need to take a lighter load
at that specific point practice hold
your pelvic floor hard that range okay
you'll find you're getting and this
convex a scientific principle specific
adaptation to impose demand you have a
specific problem under a specific
demands or are we going to drop the load
we have put you in that position you're
going to achieve that pelvic floor
better you're going to practice it your
body will adapt to that you'll be better
while we're on the topic of females
we're talking about females I'm sure we
have a lot of coaches who listen who
train women as well can we talk about
training around your menstrual cycle
because really super seriously important
no where's it come from essentially
naturally because within the cycle as
there are hormonal changes there's a
fixed support with those hormones upon
the collagen within your body
the famous sacroiliac joints that join
your sacrum to your pelvis they are
effective with some women who especially
those who've had childbirth this is well
be identified within the populations
more predominately those who've had
children will have it more often but
there will be a weakness softly collagen
around about during the period time
interesting I have some people who work
with the AFL W and they've said that
within studies they're noticing more
anterior cruciate ligament injuries
during period times yes that associates
the same problem so we're seeing that
there's a relationship between lack of
muscular control and some weakness of
the collagen in the ligaments how do we
train around that's the next question
really smartly all right think about the
sacroiliac joint it's where if you're
standing on your feet it's where the
weight transference will go through from
your hip through your pelvis to your
spine essentially this is the point
where it happens so don't do single-link
work during that period time do doubling
work no single leg leg pressing no step
ups keep that out move to double it work
during that time when you feel more
painful or when you feel this stable
guess what I'm feeling okay now then you
can move to your single link programming
outside of that time and you'll be fine
all right so that's where there is a
hormonal relationship there is a way to
approach training with it all doubling
stuff close chain on ground that's a
really good point for the women out
there because it's something that we
experience every month because the
glutes actually closed help close the
sacroiliac joint as well as the
transverse abdominus so you talk about
ab training they're racing work is
certainly going to assist as well in
call work I've tend towards braced call
work especially going is that rather
than moving forward as well so the brace
call were doubling worth so we're
talking like the couple of days leading
up to the period when the period starts
around that time yes so many people
outside Isabella yeah up to a five seven
day experience they will I just know
they should be I definitely feel like I
don't feel that even when I'm going into
squat and I'll say to bass I'm just not
feeling strong my feelings stable I
don't feel like I'm gonna lift well
tonight at all my favorite exercises is
the renegade row okay it's a really
interest you want to work with because I
find a lot of people really really
tightened up the core in ways that never
experienced before and then you put them
back under the bar again I got sure that
feels better
I'm actually started to include that
into a lot of activations for people who
I've noticed with hip problems so for
your lower body movement so like prior
to squatting yeah okay oh and it's it's
a beautiful I mean I'd make it very very
strict you can't move the body at all
you got to be tough and I have seen that
people doing them with heavier weights
but they move their bodies too much you
guys stay tight so the tiny get yeah
here we go even Shaun touch we call it
get put you into their lastly the
push-up position you just reach your
right hand to your left shoulder and
down then to the opposite but you got to
do it slowly no rush the cavium but
anytime you see acceleration in the
movement there should be controlled you
know they've lost me drop so something I
love about everything that we've spoken
about so far it's a common theme that I
know this because I work with you and I
don't want to take it for granted and
just go past it but everything you're
talking about every problem we're
talking about where the solution is to
strengthen something so not to put a pin
in it not to put some electric shock
through it or any of these types of
therapies it's a common theme with us
and that is as you keep on saying what
weakness will not be tolerated how do
you fix a weakness strengthen it as we
always say there is no question that I
know of to each being stronger is not a
better answer okay so every time we
speak to you all of the times and that's
something that I do love will do
seminars together and Andrew will come
up to me and he'll say you know I've
been working on this new thing in the
background let's try it out today this
is the first ever are in in back
rehabbing back treatment in pain
treatment the low back
arching in a benchpress I've got a
solution for it and you'll pop pull the
rabbit out of a heart right in front of
us and it's like wow this is great so is
there anything currently that you're
working on that I've not seen yet
absolutely all right late at night as I
usually am I will be thinking about
something to do with anatomy or a
patient who's walked in and I'm thinking
about something I've seen well
traditionally I've actually broken down
back solutions really easily right then
it's fairly Universal I always say
professionals actually know what they
need to know they're just not confident
in how to apply er they know their
Anatomy there's nothing under there that
no one knows every muscle we got every
bone we've got the disks we know and
what if it was scared off they see never
fear about back problems so with backs
we have three systems as well you know a
passive system that should disks and
ligaments the active system both your
muscles and the neurological system how
those muscles move you only have to know
how to deal with those three simple
things and you will solve pretty much
99.9% of back problems all right well
I'm really good at protecting the
passive working I'll say Robert McKenzie
was the revolution in this back in the
1960s and fortunately I met him before
he died and wonderful brilliant
individual professor Stuart McGill
absolute magnificence when it comes to
muscular control of the core and the
integration of muscle strength and core
tightening in regard to protecting the
passive system in many of the things
that we write about we did we forget
there's a couple of other small muscles
that are actually in consequentially or
OSA which are these stabilizers the
stabilizers they're the proprioceptive
muscles little strange names called the
inter transverse Ariens semi spin out
their little muscles their
proprioceptive that means they know the
position of sense where your body is
that system gets disturbed in injury and
there's a new system of training they'll
start to integrate which is addressing
the proprioceptive
system that underlies how we moved all
the rivers the muscles closest to the
spine should turn on before the muscles
further away from the body get on
movement and it's the proprioceptive
ones that do get knocked out and do
sometimes misfire if we teach them to
fire better then your movement patterns
will be less painful and you'll be
stronger again so yes I've now there
velop some awesomely new proprioceptive
trying to fight the wobble board it's
got nothing to do with that yes so
that's your subject a lot more things
using bands and whites but offices so if
I was going to give you a kettlebell my
way 16 kilo good luck on this one and I
put a band around the kettlebell and I
hang it off the bamboo sexy Steve for a
bar especially the flexi bars and be
putting on one side and I'm going to get
you to try and squat that once what
happens to your body
everything has to stabilize so freaking
hard as this thing's bouncy up and down
on one side yeah this is one example I
do lunges with that so you do presses
imagine do whatever the sauce press good
luck I can see chalk or how to know its
position in space reflexively really
super well yeah this is the one set up
as a true rehab approach for somebody
who's having ongoing problems they have
to practice their patterning work
interesting thought stability work
doesn't build muscle or even fatigue the
crap out of your nervous system so if
you spend a lot of time doing nervous
system stability work you'll be burned
out pretty fast and you won't have roofs
or hypertrophy training so you're gonna
know that you do some of it a little bit
of it here in there but you don't overdo
it or else you know a system will be
pretty tired and fatigued by Tommy at
two major lifting so this is the grating
now like I was doing bench press work
previously I've slowed down kettlebell
work and pressing those in the bottoms
up press also push Oliver
yeah now if I had now if I had a band to
that I don't really make it to home fuel
oil body so yeah a lot of fun and our
video at a few different moves so what I
like about what you're talking about
we're obviously all in lockdown at the
moment and all we're hearing from
everyone is I've got minimal equipment
I've got a kettle bell I've got some
bands like just really simple pieces of
equipment and what you're saying is yeah
you've got some really good ideas coming
up I'm sure a lot of people would
benefit from a lot of new exercises and
using this time in lockdown to prehab
rehab do all of those things to better
themselves so when they can get back
into the gym they can get back to
someone and I do experience all types of
athletes some people that are really
really strong and don't and and I have
minor injuries and it's not as if it's a
not not a really noticeable weak point
some of these instances they're just you
know world record holders or or
controversial record holders and there's
pain that they're not sure about why so
let's just say this paint can't come
these these proprioceptive muscles how
would I approach let's just say they're
live session how would I activate or
incorporate these strange exercises
these balance exercises I'm not sure
what you would call them instability
exercises before I would test say like a
big deadlift it feels a strong lifter
really is it something that you could
incorporate for someone like that
totally here's a thought for you all you
go to but imagine your deficit deadlift
right let's get the blocks a bit higher
so that we can put a band on one side of
the bar and we just stick a kettlebell
on that band and we'll get someone a
little bit higher up off the ground so
they're already in habit on one side
only so let's assume you start with
simply a relatively good band it's going
to be the flesh to it and about a 10
kilo kettlebell on one side and let's
get them working your deficit from there
and let's see how they move that's a
nice one you could
another because examine that deficit you
can play with another pattern which
might be say back stepping lunges even
with the bar on their back which is
going to really challenge their core
price movie onto their that's a really
easy one to do because you need to have
a deficit to work from and it's trying
to go single leg so you know try one
side back stepping lunge forward do a
few reps switch around try the other
side and then move to the bar and see
how you feel it's really good for hip
problems too well when you do this with
people who have some hip instability and
that those people are gonna squat rather
than lunch yeah because you just
basically want to have them stable to
start with two feet in the ground so how
you how you gonna be putting this new
information out is it just on your
channel really I'm just writing it all
up at the moment and we'll certainly
shoot some video work but probably by
the time lockdowns out and Sebastian
myself will be back on the road how are
you in quarantine Andrew have you been
I'm doing all your stuff online yeah I
do someone actually before us weren't
you us treating somebody in the
Netherlands same thing just by a scart
with him and this morning was on new
jersey so i'm basically treating most of
people around the world just by Zuma
Skye yeah so look at a movement if you
give me a history and I'll tell you
what's wrong and then I'll give you the
exercises to do and one of you guys so
yeah I put on a website that is coming
up for people to be able to go to
programming for rehab there will just be
full of exercises and it basically will
generate the program they need and of
course mentoring for professionals as
well they can get that from me so I'm
putting a mentorian streaming for any
swordfish who wants to learn how to be a
brilliant Rehan professional so excited
I guess it's a great advantage the way
that you treat your patients isn't by
poking your thumbs into them or or
anything that's really Manuel face to
face you can pretty much prescribe
exercise to anyone regardless of whether
you
in the same room with them or not so I
guess the style of rehabilitation
specialist that you are I guess from a
business standpoint not only does it
work for you but for people that are out
there thinking that exercises can't be a
prescription for injury prevention or
rehabilitation you know kind of take
note this is the way that the world has
to adapt who knows what's going to come
after covert 19 I kind of it's hard to
predict you 20 well you got a lot of
predictions out there as how
everything's gonna go back to normality
and I know there's gonna be a lot of
paranoid people that don't want to have
face-to-face contact with larger groups
for example so probably one of them but
you know face to face contact is maybe
it's gonna change so I think that a lot
of people need to kind of take note of
this strategy and it's not just because
of covert 910 it's not just because of
making money it's because it works
strengthening a weakness is a great tool
for rehabilitation and that's why we've
aligned I just believe in everything
that you do you know it's hard for me to
ask you these questions because I kind
of know a lot of the answers are because
we've been working together for so long
but it's great for our audience to be
exposed to you and I'm gonna have you on
so many more times there's going to be
so many more topics that we want to talk
to you about I don't know where to stop
which is really really important is the
same way you do your work with people
online where they send you videos to
critique that's all I do I see the same
thing for a sub for a different purpose
I pick a moving pattern problem from an
injury point of view you pick it from
performance point of view that's where
as I said before and I've mission is a
while ago you were one of the two people
who may have has to be the other one the
two best people who can watch a human
being under a bar
and Pete the problem two best people
I've ever seen just get it and it
doesn't happen the first time you did it
it took years to develop use and the
same sort of thing you've seen it and I
was watched you develop over the last
couple years you're such a dear
different coach now with your your fine
your finesse now that's amazing you a
new matter - I think he does have a good
eye for detail while we're talking about
observations and Quarantine life have
you seen any changes in the types of
injuries coming about since being in
quarantine like shoulder postural issues
what are you seeing
actually sighs I'm seeing a little bit
of people who are attempting to do
things that they've seen other people
doing in LA they are pressing a couch
the other day yeah people are trying to
somebody else's performance to drive
yourself into the ground trying to like
someone trying to do a max world record
any lifts just because they've seen on
Instagram
load up frequently practice and you'll
be okay but always getting a coach if
you're gonna do something interesting
that guy's been safe okay I think so so
we're hitting up on the time right now
so we don't hold you for too long but we
do want to ask and we get a lot of
questions from our audience of what to
ask you and there's so many that we're
gonna say for the next time and and I
know there is going to be a son if
you'll be kind enough to bless us with
your presence of good on our show before
we go why tell us what we can find you
you can find me well so at this point
underscore underscore strength at this
point because anything I produced from
there will be young
but Instagram it that's where and when
you're usually and when you're usually
practicing you are found at which
location pro gym exclusively in
Doncaster you know seriously it will
take you six weeks to getting the same
if you start trying to book now so and
what about all the people all around the
world do they just check out your
Instagram and then DM you looking
forward to looking forward to hearing
all those wonderful people with easy
problems to face no one else did well
seriously we've never had so many
clients come to us saying there's only
one person that's ever fixed me and it's
Angela come to us and they say I've got
this problem I went to this
physiotherapist I went to that
chiropractor and then I went to Angela
and now I'm fixed yeah so love having
you on love working with you love
everything that you're all about and
we're sure if any of our audience want
to find and learn a whole lot about you
go to his Instagram page thank you so
much for jumping on our show Andrew
[Applause]
[Music]
he'll stay big for us
speak soon doc doing well
[Music]